Top 10 Study Tips for Surviving Finals Week | ASU Online

Newsroom
/
Online learning tips
/
Top 10 study tips for surviving finals week
Top 10 study tips for surviving finals week
December 10, 2024
·
2 min read
·
By ASU Online
Avoid pre-finals panic with these 10 study strategies. These include behaviors such as proven study methods, snacking on superfoods, snoozing social media and more.
Share:
1. Study in focused intervals.
According to Hannh Stirewalt, senior engagement coordinator at EdPlus at Arizona State University, “The Pomodoro Method reigns supreme! Applying this method to however you already like to study rewards your brain along the way for the hard work you are doing.” This proven study method helps you retain information while avoiding burnout.
It’s simple: Study for 25 minutes, then take a 5-minute active break—like walking the dog, shooting hoops or practicing yoga. Light physical activity boosts focus and reduces stress. Repeat this 4 times, then take a longer 15- to 30-minute break to stay sharp.
2. Mix up your study techniques.
Avoid passive techniques such as rereading notes or highlighting. Instead, try active strategies:
Quiz yourself.
Summarize material in your own words.
Teach a concept to a friend or family member.
These methods are more effective at strengthening memory and understanding.
3. Take it back to elementary school.
Remember “Never Eat Soggy Waffles”? Stirewalt suggests using acronyms, songs or rhymes to recall key concepts. It might feel silly, but these tricks can make complex material stick. For example, create a quirky story to explain a scientific process, like pizza’s journey through the digestive system, with each organ posing a new challenge.
4. Prioritize understanding over memorization.
Instead of rote learning, focus on connecting concepts. Try creating concept maps or narratives to explain relationships between ideas. The deeper your understanding, the better you’ll retain the material.
5. Practice retrieval.
Test anxiety? Tackle it by simulating the test environment often. Studies show that practicing retrieval, when you actively recall information, is one of the most effective ways to solidify learning. Use flashcards, quiz apps or practice exams to reinforce your knowledge.
6. Choose the right study environment.
Find a study space that minimizes distractions and maximizes focus. Spaces with natural light and minimal noise can improve productivity. Some students find music, such as classical, lo-fi, or even the Bridgerton soundtrack, helps them get into the zone.
7. Fuel your brain with sleep and good food.
Sacrificing sleep for study time is counterproductive because memory consolidation happens during deep sleep. Aim for 7-8 hours per night, especially before exams. As for food, opt for brain-boosting snacks such as nuts, berries, dark chocolate and whole grains. And don’t forget to drink water; dehydration can impact focus.
8. Break down big tasks.
Large study goals can feel overwhelming. Break them into smaller, manageable steps. For instance, instead of setting a reminder to “study for biology exam,” create tasks such as “review photosynthesis,” “quiz self on key terms” and “summarize Chapter 3.”
9. Avoid multitasking.
Research shows multitasking reduces productivity and increases stress. Turn off notifications and focus on one task at a time. Few people are truly capable of multitasking. Don’t try to be an exception during finals.
10. Make time for fun!
Stirewalt emphasizes balance: “I always recommend checking out Sun Devil Sync to see what virtual and on-campus events are happening before finals week. There are usually a lot of de-stress and fun social activities to provide students a break in their studying.” Maintaining mental and physical health is key to staying motivated and focused.

At ASU Online, we’re committed to supporting you every step of the way. For additional student support, check out the
resources available to you
and don’t hesitate to reach out to
your success coach
for more information.
Share:
Step 1 of 2
Request information
To learn more about ASU Online or a specific program, fill out the form below and check your email for information on next steps.
* Indicates a required field
*
Degree type
Select a degree type
Press enter to open the dropdown menu.
Area of interest
Select an interest area
Press enter to open the dropdown menu.
Program
Select a program
Press enter to open the dropdown menu.
* Have you served in the U.S. military or are you a military dependent?
Yes
No
*
First name
*
Last name
*
Email
*
Phone number
By submitting my information, I consent to ASU contacting me about educational services using automated calls, prerecorded voice messages, SMS/text messages or email at the information provided above. Message and data rates may apply. Consent is not required to receive services, and I may call ASU directly at
866-277-6589
. I consent to ASU’s
mobile terms and conditions
, and
Privacy Statements
, including the European Supplement.