DOWNTOWN DEVILS: ASU SURVIVAL GUIDE - Home

Any college campus can be intimidating to a student,
but one that is downtown, in the heart of a bustling city can be especially overwhelming.  This is a guide for students, by students, that may help to relieve some anxiety about where and how to get things done, what services are available, and maybe even where to get some good cheap eats.
There are many advantages and some disadvantages to having our college campus in the heart of a big city.  For example, we have the choice of many fantastic restaurants to have lunch or dinner, some even nationally renowned. While having access to great eats is important to a lot of us, something equally important is transportation.
Getting around the downtown campus and to other ASU campuses can seem difficult at first, but with transportation modes such as the free intercampus shuttle, Valley Metro light rail, bikes you can rent on campus, and multiple parking structures at each campus, it’s simpler than you may think. The free intercampus shuttles run every 30 minutes shuttling students between Tempe, Downtown Phoenix and West Campuses. The Valley Metro light rail offers discounted annual student passes for ASU students who prefer to get around that way, though many students opt out and prefer to drive. Resources such as the ASU GO app and ASU Shuttle Tracker help students track shuttles going in between campuses, and find buildings and classrooms on campus and they are able to map themselves to get across campus with no worry and can even see how long it will take them to get to the building they are heading to. With free or inexpensive options offered by ASU for transportation, and a variety of resources online, students can easily learn to navigate around campus and to other campuses in the valley.
Figuring out where to live, especially your first year, is always a difficult task and decision. In this blog, we will take you through some of the most popular dorms and apartments that are available for students. All of these will be in walking distance of the campus and near restaurants and stores for your convenience! There is a podcast talking about the benefits of living in the Roosevelt Point student apartments and a fun video where you can experience first hand the activities Roosevelt Point offers! There are also pictures of the apartments and dorms so you can see what these apartments and dorms look like. Prices will be linked in descriptions to the website of the apartment or dorm. If you find an apartment you like, make sure to sign your lease quickly because rooms are already filling up!
One of the greatest advantages to attending the Downtown campus is the many options for dining and opportunities for entertainment. From gourmet to quick and easy on the go meals, there are options for anybody. The campus is located just a couple blocks away from the heart of Downtown Phoenix where Diamondbacks’ Chase Field is located. Student tickets are provided at a discounted price, giving students a great option for entertainment that is within walking distance. Additionally, there is fine dining and shopping downtown. On campus, there are numerous options for food such as Chic-fil-a, Subway, and the Phoenix Public Market Bakery. Vera Icon Nail Salon is also located in the center of campus. Visit the Food and Fun page for more information on great eats and entertainment.
Something that benefits all ASU campuses is the abundance of resources available for students. Tutoring and counseling centers are readily available and have staff members who make student success their number one goal. For any student needing help or guidance, there is someone there to answer any questions or provide support.
Downtown, our counseling services are located in the Historic Post Office Building, Suite 208, any Sun-Devil can receive counseling for emotional concerns, problems adjusting, or any factors affecting their ability to achieve academic or personal goals.
Located on the first floor of the University Building is the Subject Area Tutoring Center, offering tutoring in specific areas like math, physics, chemistry, and biology. Check out our resource page for a specific schedule of subjects.
During finals week, the ASU libraries are even offering extra support in the form of “Stress Relief Stations”, where students can grab a bit of free food, and reduce stress with puzzles, coloring books, and stress balls.
ASU has much to offer and we hope this website is helpful and insightful for current and future sundevils!

Follow our new twitter for more updates about the Downtown Phoenix campus
here
!

Addison Wells

Madison Spencer

Brian Krejci

Madisen Carter

Share your tips and secrets about your downtown campus experience with us!

Name
*

First

Last

Email
*

Comment
*

Submit