Resources - DOWNTOWN DEVILS: ASU SURVIVAL GUIDE

Academic and Health Resources

Some of the many resources that ASU's Downtown Campus offers is a tutoring center and counseling services. ASU takes student success very seriously and provides individual help for each student that needs it. Some of the areas of focus include subject are tutoring, writing support and online tutoring. Additionally, SI sessions are held for certain classes where students can meet with an SI leader and get additional help on the material for each week. The tutoring centers offer sufficient review sessions for exams and provide excellent academic mentors with experience and the will to help students succeed.
ASU's counseling services are proficient in their confidentiality and loyalty to students. With an experienced and personal staff, they are ready to help students navigate through college life and prepare them for their future endeavors. Students are able to express themselves and have support in any area from counselors. The counseling services are slightly different from ASU's first year success program where first year students are appointed a coach to help guide them through their first year at ASU. Appointments for both services are available upon request.
Students are provided with many resources to help improve self sufficiency and increase well being. They are also supported and set up for success through these services that the university offers. Located directly on campus or online, students have easy access to many resources for help. The tutoring center and counseling services are only a couple out of many helpful resources the help students survive at the downtown campus.

Story by Addie

Subject Area Tutoring

Subject Area Tutoring is available for a variety of subject areas, including MAT, PHY, CHM, BIO and more. Tutors for these subjects are students who have successfully completed the classes they tutor. On the Downtown Phoenix campus tutoring is available in the University Center building on the first floor. Use
Tutor Search
to find specific times for specific subjects.
University Center 101 Hours of Operation:
Monday – Thursday: 10am – 7pm
Friday: 10am
–
3pm